Coding Task

Create a REST api to be consumed by a mobile app, which is somewhat similar to TrueCaller (basically a
combination of a global database of people and contacts along with spam detection).


Terminology and assumptions:

● Each registered user of the app can have zero or more personal “contacts”.

● The “global database” is basically the combination of all the registered users and their personal contacts
(who may or may not be registered users).

● The UI will be built by someone else - you are simply making the REST API endpoints to be consumed
by the front end.

● You will be writing the code as if it’s for production use and should thus have the required performance
and security. However, only you should use only a web server (the development server is fine) and a
database, and just incorporate all concepts using these two servers. Do not use other servers.
Data to be stored for each user:

● Name, Phone Number, Email Address.
Registration and Profile:

● User has to register with at least name and phone number, along with a password, before using. He can
optionally add an email address.

● Only one user can register on the app with a particular phone number.

● User needs to be logged in to do anything; there is no public access to anything.

● You can assume that the user’s phone contacts will be automatically imported into the app’s database -
you don’t need to implement importing the contacts.



Spam:

● User should be able to mark a number as spam so that other users can identify spammers via the global
database. Note that the number may or may not belong to any registered user or contact - it could be a
random number.



Search:

● User can search for a person by name in the global database. Search results display the name, phone
number and spam likelihood for each result matching that name completely or partially. Results should
first show people whose names start with the search query, and then people whose names contain but
don’t start with the search query.

● User can search for a person by phone number in the global database. If there is a registered user with
that phone number, show only that result. Otherwise, show all results matching that phone number
completely - note that there can be multiple names for a particular phone number in the global
database, since contact books of multiple registered users may have different names for the same
phone number.

● Clicking a search result displays all the details for that person along with the spam likelihood. But the
person’s email is only displayed if the person is a registered user and the user who is searching is in the
person’s contact list.



Data Population:

● For your testing you should write a script or other facility that will populate your database with a decent
amount of random, sample data.